# Node.js
A JavaScript runtime that executes JavaScript outside of the browser, making it possible to use Javascript for backend work.
##  npm
Node Package Manager (npm) allows scripts to be 'packaged' and shared in a registry. Used to install all sorts of dependencies.
##  package.json && package-lock.json
Files generated by `npm init` that detail what dependencies (packages) are installed for the project, and other meta details.

# JAMstack
# API
An Application Programming Interface (API) is a way to communicate between applications.

Client *=(request)=>* API =(request)> Database
Database *=(response)=>* API *=(response)=>* Client

A real life metaphor would be dining at a restaurant. If we make the following connections:
> Customer = Client
> Waiter = API
> Kitchen = Database
1) The customer tells the waiter what it wants to order
2) The waiter takes that order to the kitchen
3) The kitchen makes the order
4) The kitchen gives the waiter the order
5) The waiter gives the order to the customer

The customer never interacts directly with the kitchen.

##  Express
##  Formidable
# Workflow automation
##  Gulp
##  Babeljs
# Sass
# Ejs
# Databases
## CRUD
Create, Read, Update, Delete - the four basic functions of data storage.
##  fetch()
##  SQL / NoSQL
##  MySQL / phpMyAdmin
##  Firebase / Firestore
# Callback Hell
# Promises
##  async / await
##  then()
##  try() / catch()
# Netlify
# Heroku
# Github
##  Pull-requests
##  Merging
##  Forks
##  .gitignore
# .env
# HTTP
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is the protocol used for the internet. When -S is appended, it stands for Secure.
##  HTTP Methods
GET, PUT, PATCH, POST, and DELETE. These methods correspond to the CRUD functions of data storage, with one difference.

PATCH and PUT both update data.

PATCH will merge with previous data.\
PUT will overwrite previous data.
##  HTTP Status Codes
[MDN Documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status)
Important codes are:
- **200: OK**\
The request succeeded
- **201: Created**\
A new resource was made (i.e. post)
- **204: No Content**\
Request succeeded but there is no content to return (i.e. delete)
- **400: Bad Request**\
Invalid syntax was used
- **404: Not Found**\
Valid syntax was used, but resource does not exist
- **418: I'm A Teapot**\
Cannot brew coffee with a teapot

## RESTful
Representational State Transfer (REST) is an API pattern for existing HTTP methods: GET, PUT, PATCH, POST, and DELETE
##  Insomnia
##  HTTP Header / Body
# Project Structure
```
dist/
  index.html
  page/
    index.html
  assets/
    data/
    css/
      style.css
    images/
    scripts/

src/
  html/
    partials/
      head.ejs
      header.ejs
      after-footer.ejs
      ...
    templates/
      index.ejs
      page.ejs
      ...
  json/
  scripts/
  scss/
    _partial.scss
    style.scss
  images/

node_modules/
  ...

.gitignore
gulpfile.js
package.json
package-lock.json
```

# Spread operator
[MDN Documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax)\
`...` is the spread operator from ES6